# Project Euler Solutions in Python
Questions from Euler Project posted here for record.  These were all done using a Python's __Integrated Development and Learning Environment__ using Python version 3.6.4.  

## Problem 1 - Multiples of 3 and 5 
This is a simple problem to start the coding challenge.  The main concept is to use the modulo operator, and that variable comparison uses double equal signs.  An one line solution using a python _"list comprehension"_  is 
```
print(sum([x for x in range(1,1000) if x%3==0 or x%5==0 ]))

```

An oldschool, but more explicit solution uses variable declaration and a while loop.  
```
x,total = 0,0
while x<1000:
    if x%3==0 or x%5==0:
        total+=x
    x+=1
print(total)
```

## Problem 2 - Even Fibbonacci Numbers
The Fibbonacci series is a beautiful mathematical entity. It is generated by adding the two subsequent terms. It is found in all areas of nature and science.  The question here is 
+to find the sum of even terms less than 4,000,000.  The Fibbonnacci sequence leads to a very instructive coding lesson in how to re-assign
+variables without creating an infinite list of them.  Here, we need to seed the function with the numbers "a,b=1,1".  Then we can 
+move through the list with the values "a+b".
```
a,b,,total=1,1,0,
while (a+b) < 4000000:
    if (a+b)%2==0:
        total+=(a+b)
    a,b=b,a+b
print(total)
```

## Problem 4 - Largest Palindrome Product
This problem asks to find the largest palindromic number which is the product of two 3 digit numbers, or the numbers 100 through 999).
A straightforward approach is to make a string of each product, check if its a palindrome, then check if its bigger than the ones before it.  
The challenge here is that you need to scan through all of the possible values for each number in the product.  But since were looking for the largest,
it makes sence to start with the largest possible value for each number and then work backwards.  We break the y loop once we find a palindrome because
any smaller value of y must give a smaller product.  However, it is possible that a smaller value of x and larger value of y gives a larger palindrome, so we 
run through the whole list of values for x.  However, I just realized, that by recording the value of y that gives the largest palindrome, you could
stop the x loop once it falls to that value since multiplication is symmetric.
```
p=0
x=999
while x>99:
    y=x-1
    while y>99:
        num = x*y
        if list(str(num))[0]==list(str(num))[len(str(num))-1]
        and list(str(num))[1]==list(str(num))[len(str(num))-2]
        and list(str(num))[2]==list(str(num))[len(str(num))-3]:
            if num>p:
                p=num
            break
        else:
          y=y-1
    x=x-1

print(p)
```
## Problem 5 - Smallest Multiple
To find the smallest number that is evenly divided by the numbers 1 through 20.  This can be solved with a mix of math and then a bit of clean up

First, make the product of every prime number less than 20, since these will not have common divisors. This gives the number
**x=1*2*3*5*7*11*13*17*19**./n
Then we need to check if this is divisible by 4,6,8,9,14,15,16,18, or 20.  We can solve this by forming a list that gives 
the remainder of the value of x divided by each number from 1-20, then reading off which value is not zero, and multiplying x by that number.  Starting from 20 and working backwards is faster, since if 20 is a divisor, then so is 4,5,and 10.  And if 18 becomes a divisor, then so is 9, etc./n

The code to make the list is with a list comprehension
```
x=1*2*3*5*7*11*13*17*19
print([x%i for i in range(1,20)])
```
which outputs

```
[0, 0, 0, 2, 0, 0, 0, 2, 3, 0, 0, 6, 0, 0, 0, 10, 0, 12, 0]
```
So this says we need to multiply by 18 to fix that remainder of 12 at the end.  This gives 
```
[0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 4, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 4, 0, 0, 0]
```
so multiply by 16 to get
```
[0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0]
```

which shows it is divisible by every number up to 20.
